preparation for JOSS submission (#395)
bids-standard/pybids: paper/paper.md

philosophy that prioritizes common use cases and discourages complexity. By
successfully encouraging a large and ever-growing subset of the community to
adopt a common standard for naming and organizing files, BIDS has made it much
easier for researchers to share, re-use, and process their data
[@Gorgolewski2017-cz].

The ability to efficiently develop high-quality spec-compliant applications
itself depends to a large extent on the availability of good tooling.
Because many operations recur widely across diverse contexts—for example,
almost every tool designed to work with BIDS datasets involves regular
file-filtering operations—there is a strong incentive to develop utility
libraries that provide common functionality via a standardized, simple API.

``PyBIDS`` [@zenodo] is a Python package that makes it easier to work with BIDS
datasets. In principle, its scope includes virtually any functionality that is
likely to be of general use when working with BIDS datasets (i.e., that is not
specific to one narrow context). At present, its core and most widely used
module supports simple and flexible querying and manipulation of BIDS datasets.

> PyBIDS makes it easy for researchers and developers working in Python to search

Reviewer: to obtain metadata record associated with a file within bids dataset,

although somewhat implied by ability to search, might be worth spelling out. Might get more value if preceding description of bids would mention that metadata is encapsulated across multiple levels (inherence, filenames, side car json files)

for BIDS files by keywords and/or metadata; to construct BIDS-valid path names
for new files; and to validate projects against the BIDS specification, among
other applications.

> In addition to this core functionality, PyBIDS also contains an ever-growing

Reviewer: May be position it as a satellite to bids:
As BIDS specification evolves and acquires new features, PyBIDS is getting extended and now contains ...

set of modules that support additional capabilities. At present, PyBIDS
includes tools for (1) reading and manipulating data contained in various
BIDS-defined files (e.g., physiological recordings, event files, or
participant-level variables); (2) constructing design matrices and contrasts
that support the new ``BIDS-StatsModel`` specification (for machine-readable
representation of fMRI statistical models); and (3) automated generation of

> partial methods sections.

Reviewer: extend with "... to be included in publications", otherwise a bit vague methods sections

PyBIDS can be easily installed on all platforms via pip (``pip install
pybids``), though currently it is not officially supported on Windows. The
package has few dependencies outside of standard Python numerical and image
analysis libraries (i.e., numpy, scipy, pandas, and NiBabel). The core API
is deliberately kept minimalistic: nearly all interactions with PyBIDS
functionality occur through a core ``BIDSLayout`` object initialized by passing

> in a path to a BIDS project. For most applications, no custom configuration

Reviewer: I don't know bids projects, so "to a BIDS dataset"

should be required.

Although technically still in alpha release, PyBIDS is already being used both
as a dependency in dozens of other open-source brain imaging packages--e.g.,

> fMRIPrep, MRIQC, and fitlins--and directly in many researchers' custom Python

Reviewer: Would hurt to add references to all those projects. datalad-neuroimaging also uses it

Author: How do I cite datalad? Do my eyes deceive me, or is there *gasp* no duecredit support?

    name: Lee, John A.
    orcid: 0000-0001-5884-4247
  - affiliation: UC Berkeley
    name: Visconti di Oleggio Castello, Matteo
    orcid: 0000-0001-7931-5272
  - affiliation: The Laboratory for Investigative Neurophysiology (The LINE), Department
      of Radiology and Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Lausanne, Switzerland;
      Center for Biomedical Imaging (CIBM), Lausanne, Switzerland
    name: Notter, Michael Philipp
    orcid: 0000-0002-5866-047X
  - affiliation: Sainte-Anne Hospital Center, Université Paris Descartes
    name: Roca, Pauline
    orcid: 0000-0003-2089-6636
  - affiliation: Stanford University
    name: Blair, Ross
    orcid: 0000-0003-3007-1056
date: 19 February 2019
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Summary
Brain imaging researchers regularly work with large, heterogeneous,
high-dimensional datasets. Historically, researchers have dealt with this
complexity idiosyncratically, with every lab or individual implementing their
own preprocessing and analysis procedures. The resulting lack of field-wide
standards has severely limited reproducibility and data sharing and reuse.

To address this problem, we and others recently introduced the Brain Imaging

> Data Standard (``BIDS``; [@Gorgolewski2016-sk]): a specification meant to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Data Standard (``BIDS``; [@Gorgolewski2016-sk]), a specification meant to
```

almost every tool designed to work with BIDS datasets involves regular
file-filtering operations—there is a strong incentive to develop utility
libraries that provide common functionality via a standardized, simple API.

``PyBIDS`` [@zenodo] is a Python package that makes it easier to work with BIDS
datasets. In principle, its scope includes virtually any functionality that is
likely to be of general use when working with BIDS datasets (i.e., that is not
specific to one narrow context). At present, its core and most widely used
module supports simple and flexible querying and manipulation of BIDS datasets.
PyBIDS makes it easy for researchers and developers working in Python to search
for BIDS files by keywords and/or metadata; to consolidate and retrieve
file-associated metadata spread out across multiple levels of a BIDS hierarhcy;
to construct BIDS-valid path names for new files; and to validate projects
against the BIDS specification, among other applications.

In addition to this core functionality, PyBIDS also contains an ever-growing
set of modules that support additional capabilities meant to keep up with the

> evolution and expansion of the BIDS specification itself. At present, PyBIDS

Reviewer 2: Just to avoid being too repetitive (L141):

```suggestion
evolution and expansion of the BIDS specification itself. Currently, PyBIDS
```
